now Jephthah the gileadite was a mighty
man of Valor but he was the son of a
harlot and Gilead begat jeffer Gilead 's
wife bore sons and when his wife's sons
grew up they drove Jephthah out you
shall have no inheritance in our
father's house for you are the son of
another woman then jeffer fled from his
brothers and dwelt in the land of table
and worthless men banded together with
Jephthah and went out raiding with him
came to pass after a time that the
people of Ammon made war against Israel
and so it was when the people of Ammon
made war against Israel that the elders
of Gilead went to get gesture from the
land of time then they said to Jetha
come and be our commanders that we may
fight against the people of Ammon did
you not hate me and expel me for my
father's house why have you come to me
now when you are in distress
that is why we have turned again to you
now that you may go with us and fight
against the people of ammon and be our
head over all the inhabitants of Gilead
if you take me back home to fight
against the people of ammon and the Lord
delivers them to me shall I be your head
the Lord will be a witness between us if
we do not do according to your words
then jefra went with the elders of
Gilead and the people made him head and
commander over them and Jephthah spoke
all his words before the Lord in Misbah
now jefra sent messengers to the king of
the people of ammon what do you have
against me that you have come to fight
against me in my land and the king of
the people of ammon answered the
messengers of Jeb fer because Israel
took away my land what they came up out
of Egypt from the on on as far as the
Jamaat and to the Jordan now therefore
restore those lands peaceably
so Jephthah again sent messengers to the
king of the people of ammon thus says
Jephthah Israel did not take away the
land of Moab nor the land of the people
of Ammon for when Israel came up from
Egypt they walked through the wilderness
as far as the Red Sea and came to Kadish
then Israel sent messengers to the king
of Edom saying please let me pass
through your land but the king of Edom
would not heed and in like manner they
sent to the king of Moab but he would
not consent so Israel remained in Kadish
and they went along through the
wilderness and bypassed the land of Edom
and the land of Moab came to the east
side of the land of Moab and encamped on
the other side of Arnon but they did not
enter the border of Moab for the Arnon
was the border of Moab then Israel sent
messengers to Sihon king of the amorite
z-- king of Heshbon and israel said to
him please let us pass through your land
into our place but Sion did not trust
Israel to pass through his territory
so Sion gathered all his people together
encamped in J has and fought against
Israel and the Lord God of Israel
delivered Sion and all his people into
the Land of Israel and they defeated
them
thus Israel gained possession of all the
land of the amur rights who inhabited
that country they took possession of all
the territory of the amorite s-- from
the Arnon to the Jabbok and from the
wilderness to the jordan and now the
Lord God of Israel has dispossessed the
Amorite sfrom before his people Israel
should you then possess it will you not
possess whatever key mush your God gives
you to possess so whatever the Lord our
God takes possession of before us we
will possess and now are you any better
than balak the son of zippor king of
Moab did he ever strive against Israel
did he ever fight against them while
Israel dwelt in heshbon and its villages
in a rower and its villages and in all
the cities along the banks of the Arnim
for three hundred years why did you not
recover them within that time therefore
i have not sinned against you but you
wronged me by fighting against me
may the Lord the judge render judgment
this day between the children of Israel
and the people of Ammon however the king
of the people of Ammon did not heed the
words which Jeff fir sent him
then the Spirit of the Lord came upon
jephthah and he passed through Gilead
and Manasseh and passed through misper
of Gilead and from Misbah of Gilead he
advanced toward the people of ammon and
jephthah made a vow to the Lord if you
will indeed deliver the people of Ammon
into my hands and it will be that
whatever comes out of the doors of my
house to meet me when I return in peace
from the people of Ammon shall surely be
the lords and I will offer it up as a
burnt offering
so jefra advanced toward the people of
Ammon to fight against them and the Lord
delivered them into his hands and he
defeated them from aroa as far as Minnis
20 cities and to Abel kellerman with a
very great slaughter thus the people of
Ammon were subdued before the children
of Israel
when Jephthah came to his house at
Lisbon there was his daughter coming out
to meet him
Tim Bowles will dance and she was his
only charm
besides her he had neither son nor
daughter and it came to pass when he saw
her he tore his clothes and said alas my
daughter
you have brought me very low
you are among those who trouble me for I
have given my word to the Lord and I
cannot go back on it
my father if you have given your word to
the Lord do to me according to what has
gone out of your mouth because the Lord
has avenged you of your enemies the
people of Ammon let this thing be done
for me let me alone for two months that
I may go and wander on the mountains and
bewail my virginity my friends and I go
and he sent her away for two months and
she went with her friends and bewailed
hellige initi on the mountains and it
was so at the end of two months that she
returned to her father and he carried
out his vow with her which he had found
she knew no man and it became a custom
in Israel that the daughters of Israel
went four days each year to lament the
daughter of Jeptha the gileadite